h1. hstore-properties


h2. Setup


Simply add following to your gemfile

@gem 'hstore-properties'@

Create @properties@ column in the model you would like to use properties within, i.e.

@rails g migration AddPropertiesToUsers properties:hstore@

Apply your migration

@rake db:migrate@

Finally, describe your properties in your model file 

bc. class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  include ActiveRecord::HstoreProperties
  properties 'third_name', 
             'some_cool_feature' => :boolean, 
             'comments' => :counter,
             'age' => :number
end


h2. Usage

h3. Retrieving values

By default, all your properties are of type String. There are number of other property types available though...

* string
* boolean
* number
* counter

More will come in near future...

All properties can be retrieved just as they are written into hstore column, by suffixing them with @_property@, i.e.

@User.last.third_name_property #=> "Jack"@

*Boolean* properties, can be additionaly retrieved by using @_enabled?@ suffix, that will cast them to boolean value, i.e.

@User.last.some_cool_feature_enabled? #=> true@

*Counter* properties, can be retrieved by using @_count@ suffix, that will cast them to integer value, i.e.

@User.last.comments_count #=> 10@

What is more, it is possible to bump counter properties, i.e. following line will increment comments property by 1

@User.last.comments_bump!@


h3. Updating through forms

You obviously need to add @:properties@ to yours @attr_accessible@

Below is an example of building appropriate fields dynamically with formtastic

bc.. <%= semantic_form_for @user do |f| %>
    <%= f.first_name %>
    <%= f.fields_for :properties, OpenStruct.new(@user.properties) do |builder| %>
        <% User.properties.each do |property| %>
            <%= builder.input property.name, property.formtastic_options %>
        <% end %>
    <% end %>
    <%= f.submit %>
<% end %>

h2. Further customization

If most of your properties are of the same type, but other than string, you can overwrite @default_proeprty_klass@ to make other type default, i.e.

bc. 
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
#...
  def self.default_property_klass
    ActiveRecord::Properties::BooleanProperty
  end
end

h2. When to use?

* If you consider adding redundant column to your table, that will only sometimes store any data
* If you would like to make particular model "configurable"
* If you will not likely perform queries on specific field but mostly read from it directly

